The GIMP# FAQ
-------------

Q: why C#?

A: because there was a niche for such a language for programming GIMP
plug-ins. Either you could create slow but easy to write plug-ins in
Script-fu (Scheme), Perl or Python. Or you can write a plug-in in C
which is fast, but also harder to write. C# fills in the gap in
between. It's not as fast as native C, but a lot easier to write,
especially since GIMP# provides a base class plugin that takes care of
all the ugly stuff.


Q: why not Java?

A: hm, I have to think about a politically correct answer. But the
real reason is that I had to learn C# and .NET couple of years ago and
I needed a fun project. Besides, C# is quite a nice language. Update:
you can use Java with IKVM.


Q: what languages are supported?

A: C#, Java (using IKVM), Pyton (using IronPython), Visual Basic,
Nemerle and Boo.


Q: how often will you release?

A: this of course depends on the number of volunteers. At the moment
there are 2 people actively involved with GIMP#. We try to release
once a month.


Q: when is GIMP# finished?

A: short answer: never. Somewhat long answer: as soon as we have 100 %
coverage of the GIMP API we could consider the library part of GIMP#
as being finished. That is the point where we are probably going to
release 1.0. The plug-ins that are part of GIMP# will of course evolve.


Q: is there a version of GIMP# for Windows?

A: yes, starting with version 0.7.1 we provide a Windows installer.


Q: is there a version of GIMP# for Mac OS-X?

A: no, not yet. Mono runs on Max OS X and GIMP# is very portable, so
it shouldn't be too difficult to come up with a working version.


Q: I want to write a plug-in. Where do I find the documentation?

A: there is no documentation yet. However, the API closely resembles
the original GIMP API with some syntactical C# sugar. Look at
http://developer.gimp.org for the GIMP API.


Q: why doesn't GIMP# work with Mono 1.1.13?

A: in that particular version of Mono an error was introduced with
marshalling unions. This is solved in 1.1.14.


Q: can I use Mono 1.0.x?

A: until GIMP# 0.7 you can. Later versions, starting with 0.7.1,
require Mono 1.1.x or a more recent version.


Q: can I help?

A: sure! We need more documentation and more plug-ins. And of course
donating hardware always helps :) Just contact us if you want to help.